Are you ready to dive into your next Python project, but feeling a bit overwhelmed by
where to begin? Or perhaps you're worried about your new code clashing with existing
projects on your machine? In this video, we'll guide you through the
essential steps to set up a robust and isolated Python development environment. We'll leverage
Positron, Posit's powerful new IDE to get you started on the right coding path, ensuring
your projects are organized, efficient, and headache free.
To install Positron, you'll want to visit the website here at the top of the screen.
You'll also need to ensure Python is installed on your machine.
After opening Positron, we'll want to first create a new Python project.
After selecting Next, we'll then change the name of our project to PydyTuesday. This will
create a new folder called PydyTuesday in the parent directory located in the text box
below. Finally, it's always a good idea to initialize
your project as a Git repository so that we can leverage version control.
Finally, it's time to tell Positron how to set up our Python environment. We'll create
a brand new, isolated, virtual environment using venv. This is crucial because it keeps
your project's dependencies entirely separate from other Python projects on your machine,
preventing any conflicts or crosstalk. After that, we'll simply select our preferred
Python interpreter and click Create. We are given the option to open the new project
in the current Positron window or open a new window. Let's select New Window.
And there it is! You successfully created a new Python project in Positron. Notice that
there is a blank Python file, making it incredibly easy to jump right in and start coding.